Emptying the Hells from their Very Depths: The Sovereign Practice for the Confession of all
Impairments and Breakages of Vows and all Negative Actions and Obscurations

Visualize in the space in front of you all the masters, buddhas and peaceful and wrathful deities,
presiding upon lotus, sun and moon disc seats, endowed with a presence so vivid and
clear it is as if you were directly perceiving them in front of you. Then, before them all,
emanate as many bodies as there are atoms in existence, with your speech recite the text
of the confession, and in your mind feel intense remorse. This confession can be practised
at any time. In post-meditation, by maintaining the view and keeping the samaya commitments,
there will be swift accomplishment.
lama rigdzin gyalwa shyitrö kyilkhor gyi lhatsok tamché dün gyi namkhar benza samadza
All the vidyādhara gurus and deities of the mandalas of peaceful and wrathful Victorious Ones
are present in the sky before me. Vajra samāja!

emaho, chok chu dü shyi kün gyi daknyi ché
Emaho! We call upon all the great enlightened beings from every place and time,
lama gyalwa shyitro yongdzok gong
All you gurus, peaceful and wrathful Victorious Ones, turn your wisdom towards us,
dir shek nyida pemé den la shyuk
Come now, take your places on seats of lotus, sun and moon,
nyamchak narak jang chir chakchö shyé
And accept our prostrations and offerings, so that we may purify impairments and breakages,
and even the lower realms.
Prostration
yönten püntsok lama nam la chaktsal lo
To all the masters endowed with perfect qualities, we prostrate!
mikmé trödral chö kyi ku la chaktsal lo
To the dharmakāya beyond concept or elaboration, we prostrate!
dechen longchö dzokpé ku la chaktsal lo
To the saṃbhogakāya, the perfect enjoyment of great bliss, we prostrate!
dro gön chiryang trulpé ku la chaktsal lo
To the nirmāṇakāya lords, protectors of beings, manifesting in diverse forms, we prostrate!
neluk mingyur dorjé ku la chaktsal lo
To the vajrakāya of the unchanging natural state, we prostrate!
yangdak ngönpar changchub ku la chaktsal lo
To the perfect kāya of complete awakening, we prostrate!1
nyönmong shyidzé shyiwé lha la chaktsal lo
To the peaceful deities who pacify the afflictive emotions, we prostrate!
lokta tsarchö trowö ku la chaktsal lo
To the wrathful deities who annihilate mistaken views, we prostrate!
tab gön tsé dak jampal ku la chaktsal lo
To the ‘Body of Gentle Splendour’, lord of means and master of life, we prostrate!
kyöndral dra drok pema sung la chaktsal lo
To the ‘Lotus-like Speech’ which resounds without error, we prostrate!
yangdak dönden benza tuk la chaktsal lo
To the ‘Vajra Mind’ endowed with the true meaning, we prostrate!
duk ngé né sel dütsi men la chaktsal lo
To the ‘Healing Nectar’ which dispels the sickness of the five poisons, we prostrate!
drekpa jomdzé purpé lha la chaktsal lo
To the deities of Kīlaya who vanquish arrogant demons, we prostrate!
jungwé ngadak mamö tsok la chaktsal lo
To the hosts of mamos who control the five elements, we prostrate!
sa dang lam dzok rigdzin tsok la chaktsal lo
To the vidyādharas who have mastered the paths and stages, we prostrate!
tenpa sungdzé damchen nam la chaktsal lo
To the oath-bound ones who guard the teachings, we prostrate!
dragek duldzé ngak dak tsok la chaktsal lo
To the lords of mantra who subdue enemies and obstacle-makers, we prostrate!
The Forty-Two Peaceful Deities
hung, rangrig rangshé trulpadral
Hūṃ! Self-aware, self-knowing, and undeluded,
nyamnyi ngang lé yeshe shar
From the state of equality, pure wisdom arises—
kuntuzangpo yabyum la
So we may purify mind and objects, we prostrate
yi chö dak chir chaktsal lo
To Samantabhadra and his consort.

mitok yermé gongpa la
In enlightened wisdom, free from thought and undivided,
yeshe nga yi ödang sal
The five pure wisdoms shine as glowing lights—
rik nga dewar shekpa la
So we may purify mind’s afflictions, we prostrate
nyönmong dak chir chaktsal lo
To these five families of the bliss-gone buddhas.

ying kyi ngang lé kyepé gyu
Causes created out of basic space
yeshe nga yi drok sharwa
Arise as partners of the five pure wisdoms—
ying kyi yumchen nga nam la
So we may purify the elements, we prostrate
jungwa dak chir chaktsal lo
To these five great consorts of basic space.

yeshe trulpa mangpö tsok
A host of pure wisdom emanations
drowé döndu rangsharwé
Manifests spontaneously for beings’ benefit—
changchub sempa gyé nam la
So we may purify consciousness, we prostrate
namshé dak chir chaktsal lo
To these eight great warriors of awakening.

yeshe ngang lé yönten dzok
In the state of wisdom, enlightened qualities are complete,
chi dö ngödrub char tar beb
And the desired attainments fall like rain—
chöpé lhamo gyé nam la
So we may purify space and time, we prostrate
yul dü dak chir chaktsal lo
To these eight great goddesses of offering.

dukpa duldzé pawö ku
Valiant beings, subduers of the malevolent,
dak tu dzinpé kyön dangdral
Free from the faults of clinging to a self—
tatri gowa shyi nam la
So we may purify wrong views, we prostrate
lokta dak chir chaktsal lo
To these four takritas who guard the gates.

jam dang nyingjé gawa dang
Those who bring benefit to beings through
tangnyom shyi yi dro dön dzé
Love, compassion, joy and equanimity—
gokyong tromo shyi nam la
To purify eternalism and nihilism, we prostrate
takché dak chir chaktsal lo
To these four gate-keeping ladies of wrath.

tokpa druk lé khorwa druk
From six patterns of thought, six realms of saṃsāra
marik wang gi jungwa nam
Arise through the force of unawareness—
tukjé duldzé tub druk la
So that we may purify delusion, we prostrate
trulpa dak chir chaktsal lo
To the six sages who tame through compassion.
The Fifty-Eight Wrathful Deities
hung, kuntuzangpo rigpé tsal
Hūṃ! Expression of pure awareness, 'Always Excellent',
chemchok tso la chaktsal lo
To Chemchok, chief of the mandala, we prostrate.

duk nga mapang tarchinpé
Five poisons, not abandoned but perfected,
heruka la chaktsal lo
To the wrathful herukas, we prostrate.

ying lé kur shyeng tabshé jor
Arisen from basic space, uniting means and wisdom,
tromo yum la chaktsal lo
To the wrathful consorts, we prostrate.

tuk lé trulpé sang chenmo
Great secret ladies emanated from wisdom,
tromo gyé la chaktsal lo
To the eight female furies, we prostrate.

zajé ché shok ponyamo
Fanged and winged devourers, female messengers,
tramen gyé la chaktsal lo
To the eight tramen goddesses, we prostrate.

guk dren ching dom gyé dzema
Ladies who entice, capture, bind and enrapture,
goma shyi la chaktsal lo
To the four female gate-keepers, we prostrate.

jikten chaluk trulpamo
Female emanations in worldly guise,
wangchukma la chaktsal lo
To the īśvarī goddesses, we prostrate.
The Kagyé Deities
hung, yamantaka shinjé shé
Hūṃ! Yamāntaka, slayer of the Lord of Death,
ngam ji drekpé khor gyi kor
Surrounded by terrifying hosts of haughty demons,
jampal ku la chaktsal lo
To the ‘Body of Gentle Splendour’, we prostrate.

hung, tamdrin gyalpo wang gi lha
Hūṃ! Hayagrīva, sovereign deity of power,
wang drak tab kyi khor gyi kor
And a retinue skilled in magnetizing and subjugation,
pema sung la chaktsal lo
To the ‘Lotus Speech’, we prostrate.

hung, palchen benza heruka
Hūṃ! Great and glorious Vajra Heruka,
rangnang salwé khor gyi kor
Surrounded by a self-manifested retinue,
yangdak tuk la chaktsal lo
To the ‘Pure and Authentic Mind’, we prostrate.

hung, chomden chemchok heruka
Hūṃ! Mighty Chemchok Heruka,
shyitro rabjam lha yi kor
And limitless peaceful and wrathful deities,
yönten gyé la chaktsal lo
To the ‘Perfected Qualities’, we prostrate.

hung, dorjé shyönnu trinlé ku
Hūṃ! Vajrakumāra, embodiment of activity,
tro chu barwé khor gyi kor
With the ten wrathful ones blazing with fire,
trinlé dzé la chaktsal lo
To the ‘Enlightened Activity’, we prostrate.

hung, ngöndzok gyalpo heruka
Hūṃ! The heruka ‘Fully Perfected King’,
jungwa nga lé drubpé khor
With a retinue formed of the five elements,
mamö tsok la chaktsal lo
To the hosts of mamos, we prostrate.

hung, rigdzin dorjé drakpo tsal
Hūṃ! The vidyādhara ‘Mighty Vajra Wrath’,
sa dang lam la nepé khor
Encircled by those on the paths and stages,
rigdzin tsok la chaktsal lo
To the hosts of vidyādharas, we prostrate.

hung, sangwé dakpo gö ngön chen
Hūṃ! Lord of Secrets, cloaked in blue,
jikten drekpa nam kyi kor
Surrounded by arrogant worldly forces,
tenpa kyong la chaktsal lo
To the protectors of the teachings, we prostrate.

hung, tobden nakpo tutsal chen
Hūṃ! Tobden Nakpo, powerful and strong,
drakngak dakpo mangpö kor
Surrounded by masters of wrathful mantras,
dragek dul la chaktsal lo
To the subduers of enemies and obstructors, we prostrate.

detar gyalwa shyitrö lha
Whoever prostrates upon hearing in this way
gang gi tsen tö chaktsal na
The names of the peaceful and wrathful victorious deities,
damtsik nyamchak kün jang né
Will heal all impairments and breakages of samaya,
tsammé nga yi dikpa dak
And purify the negativity of the five boundless crimes.
narak né kyang dongtruk té
Even the lower realms will be emptied from their depths,
rigdzin gyalwé shying du drak
And proclaimed a buddha field of the vidyādharas.
lé kyi nampar minpé kyön
Now all the faults of our past misdeeds,
ngak tu tol la yi kyi shak
We verbally disclose and mentally confess,
mé ngak tön la dungwé jang
And purify with lamentation and remorse.
möpé talmo nyinggar jar
In devotion, we join our palms at our hearts,
depé kyang chak dab té tsal
And in faith, we prostrate ourselves entirely,
shyitrö lhatsok tsen né jö
Calling on the peaceful and wrathful deities by name.
jesu lü ngak tsuk ché té
Then, with body and speech held firm,
dorjé sempa chiwor gom
We visualize Vajrasattva at our crowns,
narak dongtruk nyingpo dé
And recite the essence of the Narak Dongtruk:

The Hundred-Syllable Mantra
om benza sato samaya | manupalaya | benza sato tenopa tishta dridho mé bhava | sutokhayo mé
bhava | supokhayo mé bhava | anurakto mé bhava | sarva siddhi mé prayaccha | sarva karma su
tsa mé | tsittam shreyang | kuru hung | ha ha ha ha ho | bhagavan | sarva tatagata benza
ma mé muntsa benzi bhava maha samaya sato ah
If you recite this mantra correctly and undistractedly a hundred and eight times in a single
session, you will become an heir to the Victorious Ones of the past, present and future.
Confession of Downfalls
ho, shyitro rabjam gong su sol
Ho! Vast array of peaceful and wrathful deities, turn your minds towards us,
gyalwé ka dang lamé lung
Failing to follow the buddhas’ words and our teachers’ instructions,
jishyin maché gal shying trul
We have fallen into error and confusion.

dorjé lobpön drinchen la
Our gracious vajra master
shekur tab dang tawa lok
We have abused and looked upon mistakenly.
zungma ché dang chamdral la
With cruel minds, harsh words, anger and attachment,
ngen sem tsik tsub chakdang jé
We have physically abused and brought real harm
dek tsok nöpa ngö su shor
Upon our consorts and dharma brothers and sisters—
ku yi damtsik nyampa nam
All these impairments of the samaya of the body,
shyitrö lhatsok chen ngar shak
We confess before the hosts of deities, peaceful and wrathful.

yidam lha dang khor masal
Failing to visualize the yidam deity and retinue,
dzab dang dejö madak chak
Chanting and reciting incorrectly or with interruption—
sung gi damtsik nyampa nam
All these impairments of the samaya of the speech,
rik nga shyitrö chen ngar shak
We confess before the five families, peaceful and wrathful.

sang chü nyerté damchepa
Having pledged to maintain the ten secrets,2
kün la drak shing damdzé ten
We announce them to all and reveal the sacred substances—
tuk kyi damtsik nyampa nam
All these impairments of the samaya of the mind,
gyalwa shyitrö chen ngar shak
We confess before the Victorious Ones, peaceful and wrathful.

shepar jawé damtsik nga
Five samayas are there of recognition,3
rik ngar mashé lokpar té
But not recognizing the five families, we view them falsely.
mipangwa yi damtsik nga
Five samayas are there of not abandoning,4
marik wang gi duk ngar gol
But through ignorance, we stray into the five poisons.
dang du langwé damtsik nga
Five samayas are there of accepting,5
tsang mer té dang bakmé ché
But we view clean and unclean, and are careless in our acts.
drubpar jawé damtsik nga
Five samayas are there of accomplishment,6
rang la nepar mashé lok
But not knowing how to abide within, we go astray.
chepar jawé damtsik nga
Five samayas are there of enactment,7
yesal mashé lokpar ché
But failing to discriminate, we act mistakenly.
yenlak damtsik nyampa nam
All these impairments of the branch samayas,
yidam lha yi chen ngar shak
In the presence of the yidam deities, we now confess.

nyenpa drubpé tingdzin yel
Ignoring the meditations of approach and accomplishment,
nyatong dü druk chöpa chak
Failing to offer on full and new moon days and at the six times,8
lelo yengwa nyi kyi muk
Lazy, distracted, and overcome by drowsiness,
sok jok serné gyukyen chung
Hoarding and offering too little out of stinginess,
tsok kyi changki khatsar shor
Acting like a ‘tsok wolf’, eating and drinking before it is time,9
pü nyam lhakma triwa dang
Polluting the first portion, and keeping the remainder,
bakmé chöpa tsingpa yi
Acting abruptly and without care and consideration—
tsor dang matsor nyampé kyön
All these faults of impairment, witting or unwitting,
khandro damchen chen ngar shak
We confess before the ḍākinīs and samaya-bound protectors!

yi kyi damnyam tawé shak
All impairments of the samayas of mind, we now confess through the view.
deyang künshyi changchub sem
In the state of the universal ground, the mind of awakening,
yinpa mepé tawa tok
We realize the view in which there is no affirmation,
minpa mepé gom nyamlen
We experience the meditation in which nothing is negated,
yin min mepé chöpa tok
And we realize the action without acceptance or denial.
redok mepé changchub sem
In this mind of awakening, without hope or fear,
tsawa yenlak tamché kyi
No breakage or impairment of any root or branch vows
chak nyam majung makyepa
Could ever occur or ever come to pass.
shakja shakjé nyimé drol
And beyond the duality of confessed and confession, we are freed!
Confession in the Expanse of the View
hung, chö kyi ying nyi tröpa mepa la
Hūṃ! When the absolute space of phenomena is beyond elaboration,
yömé nyisu tawa tang ré ché
How tiresome is the view of existence and non-existence!
ngöpo tsenmar dzinpa nyön ré mong
How frustrating it is to cling to fixed ideas about reality!
trömé dechen long du shakpar gyi
In the expanse of bliss beyond elaboration, we confess!

kuntuzangpo zang ngen mepa la
When the state of Samantabhadra is beyond good or bad,
tsang dang mewar tawa tang ré ché
How tiresome is this view of pure and impure!
zang ngen nyisu dzinpa nyön ré mong
How frustrating to cling to ideas of good and evil!
kunzang dechen long du shakpar gyi
In the expanse of bliss that is Samantabhadra, we confess!

nyampa nyi la chechung mepa la
When equalness is beyond all distinctions of size,
dak dang shyen du tawa tang ré ché
How tiresome is the view of self and other!
chechung nyisu dzinpa nyön ré mong
How frustrating to cling to the duality of great and small!
nyamnyi dechen long du shakpar gyi
In the expanse of equality and perfect bliss, we confess!

changchub sem la kyeshi mepa la
When the mind of awakening is beyond birth and death,
di dang chima tawa tang ré ché
How tiresome is the view of this life and the next!
kyeshi nyisu dzinpa nyön ré mong
How frustrating to cling to the duality of birth and dying!
chimé yungdrung long du shakpar gyi
In the unchanging expanse of deathlessness, we confess!

tiklé chenpo drazur mepa la
When the great bindu is beyond corners and edges,
zuk dang dzé su tawa tang ré ché
How tiresome is this view of form and substance!
drazur yib su dzinpa nyön ré mong
How frustrating to cling to shapes with sides and corners!
künné dumpo tiklé long du shak
We confess in the expanse of the bindu, the perfect sphere!

dü sum gyurwa mepé ngang nyi lé
In the state beyond change throughout the three times,
tokma tamar tawa tang ré ché
How tiresome is the view of beginnings and endings!
pogyur nyisu dzinpa nyön ré mong
How frustrating to cling to ideas of change and transformation!
dü sum gyurwa mepé long du shak
We confess in the expanse beyond the changes of past, present and future!

rangjung yeshe tsoldrub dralwa la
When naturally arising wisdom is neither to be sought for nor accomplished,
gyundré nyisu tawa tang ré ché
How tiresome is the dualistic view of cause and effect!
tsoldrub nyisu dzinpa nyön ré mong
How frustrating to cling to ideas of effort and attainment!
rangjung tsolmé long du shakpar gyi
We confess in the naturally arising, effortless expanse!

rigpa yeshe takché dralwa la
When the pure wisdom of rigpa is beyond eternalism and nihilism,
zungdzin nyisu tawa tang ré ché
How tiresome is the dualistic view of perceiver and perceived!
takché nyisu dzinpa nyön ré mong
How frustrating to cling to things as everlasting or non‑existent!
rigpa yeshe long du shakpar gyi
We confess in the expanse of pure awareness-wisdom!

chönyi namdak tröpa mepa la
When pure reality is beyond the elaboration of ideas,
zukngu nyisu tawa tang ré ché
How tiresome is the dualistic view of pain!
ta ü nyisu dzinpa nyön ré mong
How frustrating to cling to a centre and extremes!
chönyi namdak long du shakpar gyi
We confess in the expanse of utterly pure dharmatā!

shyalyé khang la yangdok mepa la
When the celestial palace is beyond dimension,
chi dang nang du tawa tang ré ché
How tiresome is this view of outside and inside!
yangdok nyisu dzinpa nyön ré mong
How frustrating to cling to the duality of wide and narrow!
shyalyé yangdok mepé long du shak
We confess in the boundless, unconfined expanse!

yum gyi khaying to men mepa la
When the space of the consort is beyond high and low,
teng dang oktu tawa tang ré ché
How tiresome is this view of upper and lower!
to men nyisu dzinpa nyön ré mong
How frustrating to cling to the duality of above and below!
bhaga yangdok mepé long du shak
We confess in the expanse of the secret place beyond dimension!

chö kyi ku la nyisu mepa la
When the dharmakāya is free of duality,
chi dang nang du tawa tang ré ché
How tiresome is the view of outer and inner!
nöchü nyisu dzinpa nyön ré mong
How frustrating to cling to the duality of worlds and inhabitants!
chöku gyurwa mepé long du shak
We confess in the immutable expanse of dharmakāya!

marik trulpé semchen nying ré jé
How sorrowful is the state of ignorant, deluded beings,
zukmé chö la ngöpo tsenmar dzin
Who cling to signs of substance in what has no form!
gangzak trulpé sem ni yong ré gol
How utterly mistaken are the minds of the deluded,
kyemé chö la nga dang dak tu tok
Perceiving an ‘I’ and a self in what is beyond arising!
nangsi gyuma yinpar mashé té
Not knowing appearance and existence to be an illusion,
zangzing nor la sem kyi chakpa kyé
They feel attachment for wealth and possessions.
khorwa rangshyin mepar mashepé
Not knowing that saṃsāra has no true reality,
nyen shé trulpé drok la takpar dzin
They think friends and family, companions in delusion, will live forever.
mishé kyewö lo di yong ré gol
How utterly mistaken are the minds of ignorant beings!
denpé dön bor migé lé la tsön
They reject the truth and put their energy into harmful deeds,
tönpé ka bor michö yengwé lü
Spurning Buddha’s words, they fall prey to life’s addictions,
rangrig dönmé yengwé lé la tsön
And apply their intelligence to tasks of meaningless distraction.
dindré dönmé semchen nying ré jé
How pitiful are those whose lives lack meaning in this way!
yé si mepé long du shakpar gyi
In the expanse beyond dissipating or conserving, we confess!
That was the confession through the view.
Fulfilment Offerings
During tsok and sādhana practice, you should carry out the fulfilment offering using amṛta,
rakta, torma and the clear light of a lamp.
i. Offering the Amṛta
First, take the kapāla of amṛta and hold it up in the gesture of offering. Recite these verses,
and then present the fulfilment offering.
hung, machö rangjung chenpö dzé
Hūṃ! Unaltered and naturally arisen is this great substance,
döné dakpé tsangmé dral
Pure from the beginning, and thus beyond clean and unclean,
tsawa gyé la yenlak tong
Eight principal and a thousand minor ingredients
rik nga gyalwa drubpé dzé
For accomplishing the five families of the buddhas!
damtsik kongwé men chen di
This is the great elixir that heals the samayas.
womin dalkhyab chenpo né
May the heart-aspirations of the naturally abiding buddhas
rangshyin shyukpé sangye nam
From the great all-pervading realm of Akaniṣṭha
yeshe nga yi ö kyi kang
Be now fulfilled with the light of the five wisdoms,
kunzang chöpé trin gyi kang
And by Samantabhadra’s cloud-like offerings.
tuk kyi gongpa dzokpa dang
May their enlightened intentions be fully realized,
tukjé trulpé rik druk drol
And may compassionate emanations bring freedom to the six realms.
tokmé sangye ö mingyur
May this fulfil the heart-aspirations of Samantabhadra,
kuntuzangpö tukdam kang
The original buddha of unchanging luminosity.
rang la yeshe sharwé ku
May it fulfil the heart-aspirations of infinite peaceful and wrathful deities,
shyitro rabjam lhatsok kang
The enlightened forms of pure wisdom arising from within.
tukjé trulpé dro döndzé
Manifestations of compassion bringing benefit to beings,
dorjé chang né rimpar jön
Appear in a succession that begins with Vajradhāra.
drowa drenpa tamché kyi
Now, for all these guides to wandering beings,
ku dang shyingkham chöpé kang
With this offering of kāyas and buddha fields, may their heart-aspirations be all fulfilled!
tuk kyi gongpa dzok gyur chik
And may their enlightened intentions be fully realized!
damtsik nyamchak shakpar gyi
All our impairments and breakages of samaya, we now confess!
Recite the Hundred-Syllable Mantra
ii. Offering the Rakta
Holding up the rakta, recite:
hung, chönyi len gyi yeshe chu
Hūṃ! Pure wisdom liquid, wet with dharmatā,
tukjé chakpé khadok mar
Whose colour is the red of ardent compassion,
sipa kyepa gyu yi trak
It is the causal blood that generates life,
pema rakta rangjung trak
The self-arisen blood of the lotus rakta,
shying chu dralwa sok gi trak
The vital blood of the ten fit for liberation,
tsi chü marpo jungwé trak
The elemental blood from red herbal essences—
tamché dakpa wang gi dzé
All of them pure substances of magnetizing,
madak kham sum khorwé gyu
Or impure causes for saṃsāra’s three realms.
heruka yi gongpa yi
Through the enlightened intentions of the heruka,
si sum khorwé bakchak dral
The habits of saṃsāra’s three worlds are liberated,
chöpé dzé su jinlab té
And it is blessed as a substance for offering.
yumchen kuntuzangmo la
To the great mother Samantabhadrī we offer,
yeshe charwé dönchir bul
So that pure wisdom may dawn in our minds.
traktung trowö tsok nam la
To the hosts of wrathful herukas we offer,
tukjé kulwé chöpar bul
So that their compassionate minds are invoked.
mamo khandro tamché la
To all the mamos and ḍākinīs, we offer
damtsik sowé dzé su bul
As a substance to restore the samaya.
chökyong kasung tamché la
To all the Dharma protectors and guardians, we offer
trinlé dzepé dönchir bul
So that they may carry out their activity.
damtsik kang la ngödrub tsol
May this fulfil their heart-aspirations and may they grant us accomplishment!
Recite the Hundred-Syllable Mantra
iii. Offering the Tsok and Torma
Then hold up the tsok and torma, and offer them to the deities with the following words:
hung, kham sum sowa zé kyi gyu
Hūṃ! Nourishing foods that sustain the three realms,
dru dang shingtok ro druk zé
Grains and fruits, and foods with six different tastes,10
shying chu dralwé pungpö sha
Meat from the bodies of the ten who are liberated,
dzagé pawo dru yi chü
And distilled grains, the intoxicating drink of warriors—
shyalzé döyön natsok su
Considering them as a rich and plentiful feast for the senses,
möpé sam té chöpar bul
We make an offering of them all.
chö kyi ying su möpé bul
To the dharmadhātu, we make imagined offerings,
shyiwé lha la dzepar bul
To the peaceful deities, we make beautiful offerings.
trowö lha la jipar bul
To the wrathful deities, we make majestic offerings,
lama nam la nyepar bul
To please the masters, we offer.
khandro nam la gyepar bul
To delight the ḍākinīs, we offer.
kasung nam la tsimpar bul
To satisfy the guardians of the teachings, we offer.
damtsik kangwé ten du bul
As a support for fulfilling the samaya commitments, we offer.
Recite the Hundred-Syllable Mantra
iv. Lamp
Then hold up the lamp, and recite:
hung, dzé kyi kongbu gyatsa ru
Hūṃ! Inside a hundred lamps of the finest substance,
tsangmé dongbu gyatsa tsuk
We now plant a hundred cleanest wicks,
jungwé chü marshyün gyi kang
And fill them all with melted butter, the essence of the elements.
salwé marmé gya bar né
Having lit these hundred brightly shining lamps,
damtsik nyamchak kangwé chir
With a wish to heal our impairments and breakages of samaya,
möpé gyalwa nam la bul
We now offer them to all the victorious buddhas.
womin chöying podrang né
Out of the dharmadhātu palace of Akaniṣṭha,
yeshe ö nga trak dangden
The five-coloured lights of wisdom shine in dazzling splendour—
shyitro rabjam tukdam kang
May the heart-aspirations of infinite peaceful and wrathful ones be now fulfilled!
nyingga chö kyi podrang na
In the palace of Dharma at the heart,
yeshe sabön tiklé sal
Appears the tiklé, which is the seed of pure wisdom—
rangjung shyiwé tukdam kang
May the heart-aspirations of the self-arisen peaceful deities be fulfilled!
lepa dungkhang podrang na
In the ‘skull-mansion’ palace of the brain,
rang tsal drö kyi özer bar
The light-rays of naturally emitted warmth are all ablaze—
rangjung trowö tukdam kang
May the heart-aspirations of the self-arisen wrathful ones be fulfilled!
mögü depé nangwa la
In the experience of faith and devotion,
rigpa rangjung gakmé sal
Naturally arising rigpa appears unceasingly—
dorjé lobpön tukdam kang
May the heart-aspirations of the vajra master be fulfilled!
tsa lung tiklé dangma la
In the subtle channels, wind-energies and essences,
shepa rangjung saler né
Is natural awareness, vivid and clear—
mamo khandrö tukdam kang
May the heart-aspirations of the mamos and ḍākinīs be fulfilled!
jikten sipa yangpa la
In the universe’s vast realms of existence,
zakar ö kyi tiklé sal
Appear the light-spheres of the planets and stars—
chi yi damchen tukdam kang
May the heart-aspirations of the oath-bound ones of the outer world be fulfilled!
damtsik nyamchak tamché kün
May each and every impairment and breakage of samaya
tukdam wang gi dakpar dzö
Be purified through the strength of our samaya commitment!
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
And may you grant us the accomplishments, ordinary and supreme!
Recite the Hundred-Syllable Mantra
Brief Fulfilment Offering
hung, ka sang medu jungwé kyilkhor du
Hūṃ! Within this wondrous mandala of secret instructions,
lama yidam lhatsok yongdzok la
We offer to all the masters and hosts of yidam deities.
rangjung chö kyi ying kyi kongbu ru
We offer the lamp of the naturally arising space of phenomena,
rigpé yeshe marmé tam té bul
Filled with the burning oil of pure awareness-wisdom.
tsa gyé yenlak tong jar amrita
We offer amṛta nectar of eight major and a thousand minor ingredients,
ku nga yeshe yongdzok chöpar bul
The five kāyas and the five pure wisdoms of awakening.
torshyong namdak pal gyi tormé tam
We offer the exquisite torma that fills its pure vessel,
döyön yongsu dzokpé chöpar bul
A perfect and plentiful feast of every sensual delight.
kham sum khorwa yong drol khaying dak
We offer enjoyment of the red rakta of non-attachment,
chakmé rakta mar gyi nyé chö bul
In the expanse of the three entirely liberated realms of saṃsāra.
dru chü tong la jarwé pawö dzé
We offer the blend of a thousand grains, the warriors’ substance
zijin kyé chir dzagé chöpar bul
Of powerful drink that generates majestic splendour.
a la la té gyepar shyé su sol
A la la! We implore you, please accept them with delight!

This is the brief fulfilment offering.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2004. First published on Lotsawa House, 2017. Updated 2019, with
the kind assistance of Phakchok Rinpoche and Oriane Sherap Lhamo.

Version: 2.2-20220228
↑ These are the five kāyas of Māhayoga. The 'vajrakāya of the unchanging natural state' is the
embodiment of the enlightened activity of all the buddhas, and the 'perfect kāya of complete
awakening' is the embodiment of all the buddhas’ enlightened qualities.↑ The ten secrets
are the four general secrets of the view, meditation, action and fruition; the four intermediate
secrets; what is worthy of secrecy; and the secrecy through entrustment.↑ Recognizing
the true nature of the five aggregates, the five elements, the five sense faculties,
the five sense consciousnesses, and the five sense objects.↑ Not abandoning the five poisons
of desire, anger, dull indifference, pride and jealousy, which are to be transformed
into the five pure wisdoms.↑ Accepting faeces, urine, blood, semen and bone marrow.↑ The
five families to be accomplished: Vajra, Ratna, Padma, Karma and Tathāgata.↑ Taking life,
taking what is not given, sexual misconduct, lying and idle gossip.↑ Dawn, morning, midday,
afternoon, dusk and midnight.↑ According to Dzongsar Khyentse Rinpoche, this refers to eating
the tsok before it has been consecrated, or thinking about eating it and considering
it as ordinary food. According to Khenchen Namdrol, it may also refer to behaving inappropriately
during the practice, talking noisily, and laughing and joking, when one should be
remaining in samādhi meditation.↑ Sweet, sour, salty, bitter, hot and astringent.